Once you understand the skill sets that you need for your data science initiatives,
look around your organization.
You may find that other groups, departments,
or divisions may already have people with similar skills on staff.
It may pay to take a chance on motivated talent that can be developed in-house.
In this case, determine if it's appropriate to
upskill or reskill by promoting or retraining.
It is often far less expensive to train someone who's already in
the organization than it is to find and hire a new talent.
When hiring data scientists,
you might consider candidates with PhD's.
The rigorous training of a PhD program will help prepare these candidates for
the stress of working fast and furious to
find the patterns in data and explain how to put them to use.
Moreover, you'll find that the cost difference between someone who has
completed a PhD and someone who has completed a master's degree,
tends to be just 10-20 percent.
This is a small price to pay for
an extra 3-4 years of training and education in data science.
This isn't to say that you should only hire PhD's,
there are many other variables to consider during the hiring process.
However, this should be a major input into your decision making process.
The enthusiasm around data science can bring unreasonable time demands.
Managing these demands is something we've covered in a previous section.
Nevertheless, a leader sometimes finds herself
faced with the need to staff a team in a hurry.
People with data science related skills are in high demand,
so be creative and improvise.
Some areas you might consider include individual contractors,
generalist consultancies, although they tend to be expensive,
high-end boutique or specialists consultancies,
functional-specific consultancies, off-shore consultants,
machine learning as a service,
you may exploit company rotation programs,
you may enlist technical recruiters,
or you may rely on university or Boot Camp partnerships.
Discuss your requirements and the urgency of your project
with the managers of other relevant groups within the organization.
It's possible they have staff they cannot fully utilize
and maybe happy to loan them to you or even hand them over permanently.
You may actually be doing them a favor by fully utilizing their team members.